CONTEXT.md, before:

# CONTEXT.md

## 🎯 Purpose

This repo is the base site template for user projects using:
- React + Vite + TailwindCSS + shadcn/ui
- Bun (package manager only)

Agents should extend this starter by:
1. Adding reusable UI blocks in `src/blocks/`
2. Composing them into pages under `src/pages/`
3. Using semantic design tokens for styling (no hard-coded colors)

## 🚩 Mandatory First Step

Before doing anything else, you MUST rewrite the placeholder pages:
- `src/pages/Home.tsx`
- `src/pages/About.tsx`

These files are ONLY placeholders to help boot the app. Do not keep their content or styling. Replace them with your own design and content before building additional blocks or pages.

Additionally, review and adapt the theme tokens in `src/styles/themes.css` to match the specific project/brand requirements early in the process.

**IMPORTANT**: ALWAYS run `bun run pre-deploy` before calling deploy tool.

## 🤖 Agent Priorities

### 0. 📝 Implementation Strategy
- **THIS TEMPLATE IS JUST BOILERPLATE** - completely revamp the design to match user requirements. **MUST REWRITE `Home.tsx` and `About.tsx` BEFORE building anything else.**
- **DO NOT preserve the template look** - create something unique that doesn't resemble the starter
- Use semantic design tokens for all styling (no hard-coded colors)
- Feel free to modify any aspect: pages, navigation, blocks, layouts, themes, etc.
 - Rework the theme tokens (colors, radius, spacing) in `src/styles/themes.css` to align with the user's brand or the task context; the default theme is a placeholder.

### 1. 🧱 Reusable Blocks First
- PREFER: Add/extend blocks in `src/blocks/` using shadcn/ui + Tailwind
- AVOID: Page-specific components unless they're small
- WHY: Blocks are composable, testable, reusable

### 2. 🧩 Compose Pages from Blocks
- PREFER: Keep pages in `src/pages/` minimal.
- First step: **Replace `src/pages/Home.tsx` and `src/pages/About.tsx` with your own versions**.
- PASS DATA: via serializable props (strings, numbers, booleans)
- WHY: Logic stays in reusable primitives

### 3. 📝 Implementation Strategy
1. Check if existing block can be configured
2. If not, create new block in `src/blocks/`
3. Wire block into relevant page(s)
4. Use consistent Tailwind styling with semantic tokens

### 4. 🚫 What NOT to do
- Don't introduce config systems/editors
- Don't use `dark:` variants or hard-coded colors; use tokens

## 📂 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/ui/     → shadcn/ui components
├── components/        → App-level components (e.g., ThemeToggle)
├── blocks/            → Reusable UI primitives
├── pages/             → Pages composed from blocks
├── lib/               → Helpers and utilities
├── assets/            → Static assets (@assets/*)
├── styles/            → Global styles and theme tokens
├── theme/             → ThemeProvider + hooks
└── constants.ts       → Website configurations

worker/
├── index.ts           → Hono API endpoints
└── db/
    ├── index.ts       → Database interface
    └── schema.ts      → DB schema definitions
```

## 🧱 Creating New Blocks

1. Create file in `src/blocks/`
2. Define props interface
3. Export function component

```typescript
// Example block structure
interface BlockProps {
  title: string;
  subtitle?: string;
  cta?: string;
}

export function BlockName({ title, subtitle, cta }: BlockProps) {
  return (
    <section className="py-20 text-center bg-accent text-accent-foreground">
      <h1 className="text-4xl font-bold">{title}</h1>
      {subtitle && <p className="mt-2 text-lg text-muted-foreground">{subtitle}</p>}
      {cta && <Button className="mt-4">{cta}</Button>}
    </section>
  );
}
```

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

```bash
bun install           # Install dependencies
bun run dev           # Start dev server
bun run preview       # Preview production build
bun run pre-deploy    # Generate migrations (REQUIRED before deploy)
bun x shadcn@latest add <component>  # Add UI components
bun x tsc --noEmit -p ./tsconfig.app.json # Typecheck app
bun x tsc --noEmit -p ./tsconfig.worker.json # Typecheck worker
bun x tsc --noEmit -p ./tsconfig.node.json # Typecheck node

# Theming docs
# See THEMING.md for adding/editing themes and tokens
```

## 🧭 Pages & Routing (SPA)

- Pages: `src/pages/Home.tsx`, `src/pages/About.tsx`
- Routing: `src/App.tsx` (React Router)
- Navigation: Use `Navbar` block

> WARNING: `Home.tsx` and `About.tsx` are placeholders intended only to demonstrate routing and layout. **You must rewrite both files before adding new routes, blocks, or features.**

To add a page:
1. Create `src/pages/YourPage.tsx`
2. Add `<Route>` in `App.tsx`
3. Add link in `Navbar` block

## 🖼️ Assets

- Location: `src/assets/`
- Import: `import logo from "@assets/logo.svg"`
- CSS: `background: url("./assets/hero.jpg");`

## ✅ Design Principles

- Composable over monolithic
- Schema-first with serializable props
- Consistent shadcn/ui + Tailwind styling
- Minimal state in components
- Semantic tokens only: use `bg-background`, `text-foreground`, `text-muted-foreground`,
  `bg-card`, `border-input`, `bg-primary`, `text-primary-foreground`, `bg-accent`, etc.
  Avoid literal color utilities (e.g., `text-slate-500`) and `dark:`.

## 🎨 Theming & Design Tokens

- IMPORTANT: The default theme is only a starting point. You should re-do the theme to fit the user's request or the task at hand. Do not keep the default palette, radii, or shadows if they don't match the project.

- Theme redo checklist
  - Define brand palette (primary, accent, background/foreground, muted, destructive)
  - Adjust radii, spacing, and shadows to the product's feel (e.g., compact vs. roomy)
  - Verify contrast and accessibility for all states (hover, focus, disabled)
  - Update examples/blocks to use tokens (no hard-coded colors)

- Tokens live in `src/styles/themes.css`. Themes are applied via `data-theme` on `<html>`.
- Tailwind color tokens map to CSS variables in `src/index.css` using `@theme inline`.
- At runtime, `src/theme/ThemeProvider.tsx` sets `data-theme` and persists the choice.
- `index.html` sets `data-theme` early to avoid FOUC.
- Use `ThemeToggle` (`src/components/ThemeToggle.tsx`) to switch themes.

Add a new theme

1. Copy a theme block in `src/styles/themes.css` and rename the selector to `[data-theme="my-theme"]`.
2. Adjust semantic variables (`--primary`, `--accent`, `--background`, etc.).
3. Select via `useTheme().setTheme('my-theme')` or the ThemeToggle.

## 🔌 API Endpoints (Hono in `worker/`)

Authentication:
- `POST /api/auth/register` { username, password }
- `POST /api/auth/login` { username, password } → sets httpOnly `auth` cookie
- `POST /api/auth/logout` → clears cookie
- `GET /api/me` → protected, returns current user

Database:
- D1 datastore
- Bind as `D1` in `wrangler.jsonc`
- Frontend: `src/blocks/Auth.tsx`

## 📦 Database Migrations (Drizzle + D1)

Process:
1. Define schema in `worker/db/schema.ts`
2. Run `bun run pre-deploy` (generates migrations)
3. Call deploy tool (applies migrations)

Error handling:
- If migrations fail, drop migration and repeat process

## ⚡ Realtime Features

- WebSockets: To implement
- Realtime updates: To implement

Commit message:

docs: update deployment policy to emphasize preview-first workflow

CONTEXT.md, after:

# CONTEXT.md

## 🎯 Purpose

This repo is the base site template for user projects using:
- React + Vite + TailwindCSS + shadcn/ui
- Bun (package manager only)

Agents should extend this starter by:
1. Adding reusable UI blocks in `src/blocks/`
2. Composing them into pages under `src/pages/`
3. Using semantic design tokens for styling (no hard-coded colors)

## 🚩 Mandatory First Step

Before doing anything else, you MUST rewrite the placeholder pages:
- `src/pages/Home.tsx`
- `src/pages/About.tsx`

These files are ONLY placeholders to help boot the app. Do not keep their content or styling. Replace them with your own design and content before building additional blocks or pages.

**IMPORTANT**: Default to PREVIEW, not deploy. Use `bun run preview` for validation. Only deploy when explicitly requested/approved. When deploying, ALWAYS run `bun run pre-deploy` first (to generate migrations), then proceed with deploy after review.

## 🚀 Deployment Policy

- By default, do NOT deploy. Use preview builds locally and in PRs.
- Deployment is opt-in and requires explicit approval and environment readiness.
- Preconditions for deploy
  - `bun run pre-deploy` has generated migrations and they are reviewed.
  - Environment variables and bindings (e.g., D1) are configured.
  - Rollback plan is identified for schema changes.

## 🤖 Agent Priorities

### 0. 📝 Implementation Strategy
- **THIS TEMPLATE IS JUST BOILERPLATE** - completely revamp the design to match user requirements. **MUST REWRITE `Home.tsx` and `About.tsx` BEFORE building anything else.**
- **DO NOT preserve the template look** - create something unique that doesn't resemble the starter
- Use semantic design tokens for all styling (no hard-coded colors)
- Feel free to modify any aspect: pages, navigation, blocks, layouts, themes, etc.
 - Rework the theme tokens (colors, radius, spacing) in `src/styles/themes.css` to align with the user's brand or the task context; the default theme is a placeholder.

### 1. 🧱 Reusable Blocks First
- PREFER: Add/extend blocks in `src/blocks/` using shadcn/ui + Tailwind
- AVOID: Page-specific components unless they're small
- WHY: Blocks are composable, testable, reusable

### 2. 🧩 Compose Pages from Blocks
- PREFER: Keep pages in `src/pages/` minimal.
- First step: **Replace `src/pages/Home.tsx` and `src/pages/About.tsx` with your own versions**.
- PASS DATA: via serializable props (strings, numbers, booleans)
- WHY: Logic stays in reusable primitives

### 3. 📝 Implementation Strategy
1. Check if existing block can be configured
2. If not, create new block in `src/blocks/`
3. Wire block into relevant page(s)
4. Use consistent Tailwind styling with semantic tokens

### 4. 🚫 What NOT to do
- Don't introduce config systems/editors
- Don't use `dark:` variants or hard-coded colors; use tokens

## 📂 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/ui/     → shadcn/ui components
├── components/        → App-level components (e.g., ThemeToggle)
├── blocks/            → Reusable UI primitives
├── pages/             → Pages composed from blocks
├── lib/               → Helpers and utilities
├── assets/            → Static assets (@assets/*)
├── styles/            → Global styles and theme tokens
├── theme/             → ThemeProvider + hooks
└── constants.ts       → Website configurations

worker/
├── index.ts           → Hono API endpoints
└── db/
    ├── index.ts       → Database interface
    └── schema.ts      → DB schema definitions
```

## 🧱 Creating New Blocks

1. Create file in `src/blocks/`
2. Define props interface
3. Export function component

```typescript
// Example block structure
interface BlockProps {
  title: string;
  subtitle?: string;
  cta?: string;
}

export function BlockName({ title, subtitle, cta }: BlockProps) {
  return (
    <section className="py-20 text-center bg-accent text-accent-foreground">
      <h1 className="text-4xl font-bold">{title}</h1>
      {subtitle && <p className="mt-2 text-lg text-muted-foreground">{subtitle}</p>}
      {cta && <Button className="mt-4">{cta}</Button>}
    </section>
  );
}
```

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

```bash
bun install           # Install dependencies
bun run dev           # Start dev server
# Default path: preview changes; do NOT deploy unless explicitly approved
bun run preview       # Preview production build (default), use bash with session, and system tool to expose the preview port
bun run pre-deploy    # Generate migrations (REQUIRED only before a deploy)
bun x shadcn@latest add <component>  # Add UI components
bun x tsc --noEmit -p ./tsconfig.app.json # Typecheck app
bun x tsc --noEmit -p ./tsconfig.worker.json # Typecheck worker
bun x tsc --noEmit -p ./tsconfig.node.json # Typecheck node

# Theming docs
# See THEMING.md for adding/editing themes and tokens
```

## 🧭 Pages & Routing (SPA)

- Pages: `src/pages/Home.tsx`, `src/pages/About.tsx`
- Routing: `src/App.tsx` (React Router)
- Navigation: Use `Navbar` block

> WARNING: `Home.tsx` and `About.tsx` are placeholders intended only to demonstrate routing and layout. **You must rewrite both files before adding new routes, blocks, or features.**

To add a page:
1. Create `src/pages/YourPage.tsx`
2. Add `<Route>` in `App.tsx`
3. Add link in `Navbar` block

## 🖼️ Assets

- Location: `src/assets/`
- Import: `import logo from "@assets/logo.svg"`
- CSS: `background: url("./assets/hero.jpg");`

## ✅ Design Principles

- Composable over monolithic
- Schema-first with serializable props
- Consistent shadcn/ui + Tailwind styling
- Minimal state in components
- Semantic tokens only: use `bg-background`, `text-foreground`, `text-muted-foreground`,
  `bg-card`, `border-input`, `bg-primary`, `text-primary-foreground`, `bg-accent`, etc.
  Avoid literal color utilities (e.g., `text-slate-500`) and `dark:`.

## 🎨 Theming & Design Tokens

- IMPORTANT: The default theme is only a starting point. You should re-do the theme to fit the user's request or the task at hand. Do not keep the default palette, radii, or shadows if they don't match the project.

- Theme redo checklist
  - Define brand palette (primary, accent, background/foreground, muted, destructive)
  - Adjust radii, spacing, and shadows to the product's feel (e.g., compact vs. roomy)
  - Verify contrast and accessibility for all states (hover, focus, disabled)
  - Update examples/blocks to use tokens (no hard-coded colors)

- Tokens live in `src/styles/themes.css`. Themes are applied via `data-theme` on `<html>`.
- Tailwind color tokens map to CSS variables in `src/index.css` using `@theme inline`.
- At runtime, `src/theme/ThemeProvider.tsx` sets `data-theme` and persists the choice.
- `index.html` sets `data-theme` early to avoid FOUC.
- Use `ThemeToggle` (`src/components/ThemeToggle.tsx`) to switch themes.

Add a new theme

1. Copy a theme block in `src/styles/themes.css` and rename the selector to `[data-theme="my-theme"]`.
2. Adjust semantic variables (`--primary`, `--accent`, `--background`, etc.).
3. Select via `useTheme().setTheme('my-theme')` or the ThemeToggle.

## 🔌 API Endpoints (Hono in `worker/`)

Authentication:
- `POST /api/auth/register` { username, password }
- `POST /api/auth/login` { username, password } → sets httpOnly `auth` cookie
- `POST /api/auth/logout` → clears cookie
- `GET /api/me` → protected, returns current user

Database:
- D1 datastore
- Bind as `D1` in `wrangler.jsonc`
- Frontend: `src/blocks/Auth.tsx`

## 📦 Database Migrations (Drizzle + D1)

Process:
1. Define schema in `worker/db/schema.ts`
2. Run `bun run pre-deploy` (generates migrations)
3. Call deploy tool only with explicit approval (applies migrations). Otherwise, stop at preview and do not deploy.

Error handling:
- If migrations fail, drop migration and repeat process

## ⚡ Realtime Features

- WebSockets: To implement
- Realtime updates: To implement
